The `ftemplate` directive is supplied by the [[!iki plugins/contrib/ftemplate desc=ftemplate]] plugin.

This is like the [[ikiwiki/directive/template]] directive, with the addition
that one does not have to provide all the values in the call to the template,
because ftemplate can query structured data ("fields") using the
[[plugins/contrib/field]] plugin.

Templates are files that can be filled out and inserted into pages in
the wiki, by using the ftemplate directive. The directive has an id
parameter that identifies the template to use.

Additional parameters can be used to fill out the template, in
addition to the "field" values.  Passed-in values override the
"field" values.

There are two places where template files can live.  One is in the /templates
directory on the wiki.  These templates are wiki pages, and can be edited from
the web like other wiki pages.

The second place where template files can live is in the global
templates directory (the same place where the page.tmpl template lives).
This is a useful place to put template files if you want to prevent
them being edited from the web, and you don't want to have to make
them work as wiki pages.

### EXAMPLES

#### Example 1

PageA:

    \[[!meta title="I Am Page A"]]
    \[[!meta description="A is for Apple."]]
    \[[!meta author="Fred Nurk"]]
    \[[!ftemplate id="mytemplate"]]

Template "mytemplate":

    # <TMPL_VAR NAME="TITLE">
    by <TMPL_VAR NAME="AUTHOR">

    **Summary:** <TMPL_VAR NAME="DESCRIPTION">

This will give:

    <h1>I Am Page A</h1>
    <p>by Fred Nurk</p>
    <p><strong>Summary:</strong> A is for Apple.

#### Example 2: Overriding values

PageB:

    \[[!meta title="I Am Page B"]]
    \[[!meta description="B is for Banana."]]
    \[[!meta author="Fred Nurk"]]
    \[[!ftemplate id="mytemplate" title="Bananananananas"]]

This will give:

    <h1>Bananananananas</h1>
    <p>by Fred Nurk</p>
    <p><strong>Summary:</strong> B is for Banana.

#### Example 3: Loops

(this example uses the [[plugins/contrib/ymlfront]] plugin)

Page C:

    ---
    BookAuthor: Georgette Heyer
    BookTitle: Black Sheep
    BookGenre:
      - Historical
      - Romance
    ---
    \[[ftemplate id="footemplate"]]

    I like this book.

Template "footemplate":

    # <TMPL_VAR BOOKTITLE>
    by <TMPL_VAR BOOKAUTHOR>

    <TMPL_IF BOOKGENRE>(
    <TMPL_LOOP GENRE_LOOP><TMPL_VAR BOOKGENRE>
    <TMPL_UNLESS __last__>, </TMPL_UNLESS>
    </TMPL_LOOP>
    )</TMPL_IF>

This will give:

    <h1>Black Sheep</h1>
    <p>by Georgette Heyer</p>

    <p>(Historical, Romance)</p>

    <p>I like this book.</p>

### LIMITATIONS

One cannot query the values of fields on pages other than the current
page.  If you want to do that, check out the [[plugins/contrib/report]]
plugin.
